# Cats, Boxes, and Bluffing: How AI Learns to Deceive in Schrödinger’s Cats Game

## Hybrid Intelligence


## Introduction

This repository implements a variant of the **Schrödinger's Cats** card game. In this version, the game is played between agents that use different levels of theory of mind (ToM) to decide on their actions. There are two agent types:

1. **Zero-Order Agents (ZeroOrderAgent):**  
   These agents rely primarily on their own observation (their hand and a shared central pile). There are two variants of zero-order agents, one that does not have any explicit memory and one that does, in order to observe whether zero-order agents improve. The explicit memory is incorporated as past actions to decide whether to make a claim or doubt the current one.

2. **First-Order Agents (FirstOrderAgent):**  
   These agents extend the zero-order logic by incorporating interpretative and predictive modelling of their opponent. The agent creates a profile of their opponent, and through Monte Carlo simulations, it assesses how their opponent might react in certain scenarios, thus increasing their winning chances.

The **GameManager** class controls the game flow: dealing cards, tracking bids (claims), handling turns, revealing cards, and determining the winner. Finally, the `evaluate_agents` function runs multiple simulations of the game, gathers metrics (win counts and learning curves), and produces graphs.


## Running the code

In `src/` directory, there are two Python files, `cats.py` and `cats_experimental.py`, that can be executed in the terminal to obtain the logs files. These files show the card game between the two players for each round.

Additionally, the figures generated by each file can be found in `figures/` directory. The difference in the files stands on the fact that `cats.py` implements the card game with zero-order ToM and first-Order ToM agents without explicit memory for zero-order agents. This way, we can compare whether the zero-order agent improves with explicit memory incorporated in `cats_experimental.py` file.
